they're increasingly powerful
and are becoming ever larger
agricultural machines
no matter what is being cultivated or
harvested on fields
and no matter where their size has long
since become
one of the crucial factors in
determining whether people have enough
to eat
each year the global industry produces
agricultural machinery
worth around 110 billion euros
the european manufacturers alone are
responsible for
one quarter of production
graveswald in mecklenburg for palman
germany
frank zayfeld is working with a
horsepower
case quad track he's cultivating a 20
hectare field with his crawler tractor
and he makes no secret of his
fascination for the vehicle
it's great you're driving something big
and powerful you're proud to drive
something like this
i've been driving tractors all my life
and now a really big one as a little boy
when i wasn't on the farm my mother only
had to hear a tractor and she knew
exactly where i was
the caterpillar tractor is packed full
of high-tech equipment
it weighs a total of 25 metric tons and
can pull
even the heaviest farming implements
with ease its four crawler track units
prevent the colossus from sinking into
muddy ground
enabling it to cope with any terrain
[Music]
it's a bit bumpy because of the tracks
it doesn't drive so well then
but on the field where there's lots of
holes soft spots and ruts it's as smooth
as silk
you don't notice a thing on paved roads
it's a bit bumpy but otherwise it's
wonderful to drive
there are vast areas of arable land in
mecklenburg forepoman
this particularly fertile region is also
referred to as germany's breadbasket
with fields of unimaginable size it's
where agas service for poman operates
this agricultural contractor has 25
employees and cultivates thousands of
hectares of land
on behalf of one single owner
carsten stegelmann is the company's
managing director
he's underway in his car to make
preparations for harvesting
he has a special piece of equipment in
the trunk an
rtk base station rtk stands for
real-time kinematic
[Music]
like the navigation system in a car this
piece of equipment is satellite based
the data that is received is transferred
to the combine harvester's cab
using gps technology ensuring that the
field is harvested
precisely down to the last centimeter
[Music]
that's a gps correction signal in the
background
it's corrected here by the combine
harvester's precise working width
the driver can switch to automatic and
when the vehicle is steering
automatically during threshing
he can take care of other things such as
threshing settings and so on
above all it's the size of the fields
that makes using the gigantic combine
harvesters necessary
these models are also fitted with
crawler track units
mercedes-benz engines have an output of
horsepower their headers are 12 meters
wide
this means that one combine harvester
can harvest
55 to 60 metric tons per hour
the company has a whole 22 to 25 days
time
to harvest all of the land belonging to
one single large-scale agricultural
operation
with four of these gigantic combine
harvesters
2 000 hectares roughly the same size as
800 soccer fields to manage that the
combine harvesters
are sometimes in operation day and night
during the harvesting season
the combine harvester has already
undergone the whole range of innovation
it already has most of this agriculture
4.0 in it because it steers by itself it
can measure yields down to the last
square meter
it can use yield maps and choose its own
power output
that's called cruise pilots that means
it drives
optimally the combine harvester can
basically determine its own operating
speed
depending on its throughput this combine
harvester can already do all of that
today
and in the future the combine harvester
will also be able to adjust itself
that means it saves its rotor speed it
will basically optimize
all of that so that the driver can
concentrate purely on controlling and
driving the vehicle
the driver has long since become more of
a manager for the machine
and is responsible for ensuring that its
performance is as high as possible
an automatic cruise pilot system helps
him do just that
it ensures that the combine harvester
constantly operates at its performance
limits
and harvests the maximum area
semi-crawler track units have become the
norm on the fields infopoman
each of these combine harvesters has a
curb weight of 16.2 metric tons
the special track units make sure that
the giant harvesters do not sink too
deeply into the soil
and therefore offer the fields maximum
protection
thanks to this technology the high gross
weight of the combine harvesters
is distributed much better over the
machine's axles
the advantage of the crawler track units
is that they can carry the heavy weight
better
because the headers are big and wide and
if therefore become very heavy
there's no tire that can carry this
weight
the combine harvesters tank has a
capacity of thirteen thousand
five hundred liters and as fast as the
wheat is harvested
it's transported away from the fields
each year
twenty thousand metric tons are hauled
by a gas service for pollen alone
nine large tractors each with 400
horsepower
are used to get the job done each of
them chalks up around 1 000
operating hours a year their high
horsepower is important
to quickly tow the heavy grain trailers
to the farm's on-site grain
store or to the ship waiting in rostock
port
ninety percent of the wheat from fort
palman are exported
often this is a race against time
because harvesting and delivery have to
be completed very quickly
to be able to keep up with the quality
on the world market
bad weather is the local farmer's worst
enemy
did not make number four in macomb we
have the disadvantage that our
harvesting season is a bit later than in
central germany
naturally that increases the risk of
rain
and this is why there's a constant
demand for increasingly bigger machines
so that we can deliver even faster in
this short harvesting period
so and that means everything has to be
spot on when harvesting begins
the team heads out but not the whole
team
unfortunately one of the combine
harvesters has broken down
the employees are working hard to repair
it they're pushed for time
because rain has been forecast for this
evening and the harvest
has to be brought in dry ultra modern
technology doesn't always mean
that it functions all the time
yesterday we discovered that the
variator on top was completely loose in
the shaft
the thrust washer has gone the bearing
was broken
that means the shaft is worn so we've
had to replace the entire bearing as
well as the variator and the shaft
we've had to repair everything again and
service it and it's difficult of course
right now in the final phase of
harvesting
when we really have to get a move on but
we'll get it done
it's just dumb because you have the
weather to contend with too but we'll do
it
the outlook is good
the team worked through the night and
got everything prepared
there's a big parts warehouse there a
logistics center for this product
i picked the replacement part up there
and drove back here so that we can
reinstall it
and get the machine back on the field
again it's very important for us that we
can get replacement parts quickly
and can then fit them ourselves or in
conjunction with the dealer so we can
make sure that the machine is always
operational
two hours later the harvester is back on
the field again
the race against the impending reign
appears to have been won
but then another problem crops up for
yen's mullah
this is the last thing he needs there's
something wrong with the header
[Music]
a cutter has broken off making it
difficult to collect the grain
but the harvester driver has the right
tool on board
what exactly happened
well i could see that the wheat was
getting stuck at the front in the header
and then it no longer bites into it
properly
each malfunction during harvesting is
immediately reported to managing
director carsten stegelmann
but he can already see that his employee
has the situation
under control even small things can have
major impacts on the high-tech machines
i think it says the cutting technology
is set so that it overlaps
that means that each cutter has a
specific function here and is used to
cut off each stalk
geared to the vehicle speed if one is
missing it creates congestion
then everything is pushed forward it
isn't cut off properly
and the cutter has to be replaced
it's also big contractors like kasten
stegelmann
that make their way to hanover every two
years
this is where the world's leading trade
fair for agricultural machinery takes
place it's attended by almost
half a million visitors looking for
ideas for future purchases
a new generation of combine harvesters
is attracting particular attention in
hanover
this model is one of the most powerful
combine harvesters in the world
and has a 13.8 meter header
precision and efficiency are the
buzzwords used
to market this gigantic harvester around
the globe
with its 790 horsepower truck engine
from man
it can harvest up to 44 metric tons of
cereals in just
one hour the high performance combine
harvester storage tanks
can hold up to eighteen thousand liters
of grain
klausheva is part of the development
team and is very proud of his work
but where can this technology which
comes with a price tag of around one
million euros
be operated and who are the massive
combine harvesters
it's customers by large farms or big
contracting companies that have to
harvest large areas
these are large scale operations in the
north in the east that cultivate several
thousand hectares
and run very professional crop
production operations they want to
harvest large areas as efficiently as
possible in a short space of time
with very few staff in order to feed us
all with our breakfast roll in the
morning and a glass of beer in the
evening
this new generation of combine
harvesters which is being launched with
13 models
contains around 54 000 parts
it's a technical highlight because these
agricultural machines are fitted with
numerous digital components
making them particularly efficient it
harvests 25
more efficiently than its predecessor
this means that the new combine
harvester can thresh one metric ton of
grain in less than a minute
using the energy from just one liter of
diesel
this translates into enough grain to
produce over 1 million bread rolls
within a single hour
first and foremost this is made possible
by the extreme width of the header
at almost 14 meters have the limits of
what is feasible
now been reached
that reminds me of my father 40 years
ago he said
man at 5.10 meters they can't get any
bigger
and now we've reached 13.8 meters
12 meters has already become normal yes
it's the biggest harvester in the world
right now
but there'll be further developments
over the next 20 years and we'll see
even bigger and more powerful machines
what are called terratrak crawler track
systems
were already available for the new top
model's predecessor
this drive system is based on tracks
rather than tires
and is now also widespread in corn
harvesting
the rubber tracks distribute the ever
increasing weight of the machines better
and reduce ground pressure this results
in longer operating times
even under difficult conditions and
lowers fuel consumption
however freight forwarders like joachim
ferenkota
have difficulty loading these powerful
harvesters
with 180 trucks his company is
specialized in transporting large
agricultural machines if only it weren't
for the dimensions
the machines have to be transported to
the dealers
throughout europe this is becoming
increasingly difficult
because the enormous harvesters are
often extra wide
and are also higher than the legal
limits permit the company therefore uses
special semi-trailers that can be
lowered right down to the ground
this is what enables these giants to be
transported
on the road the machine is already
around four meters high due to its
design so it has to get down as low as
possible
that means we now have about four or
five centimeters of ground clearance
later the driver will raise the machine
a little so that he has a ground
clearance of around 10 centimeters
and then he'll drive so that we don't
exceed around the 4 meter 20 mark at the
top
depending on what it says in the permit
but the dimensions
are by no means the only problem the
permissible gross vehicle weight
of 40 metric tons can't be exceeded
either
weeks with full equipment this combine
harvester has a curb weight of 25
metric tons and 25 metric tons
means the tractor unit and semi-trailer
can't weigh any more than 15 metric tons
and that's a real challenge so you have
to save weight wherever you can
aluminium wheels and special technology
such as a steered rear axle
that's actuated electronically rather
than mechanically
naturally the tractor unit has to be
particularly light
so of course you always have to think
about the driver in terms of comfort
if i use a narrow cab the driver might
have a space problem but i need every
kilogram
here is kilo
performance efficiency and also safety
requirements are crucial when buying new
tractors
overall tractors are among the best
selling vehicles on the agricultural
market
even the 400 horsepower mark has long
since been surpassed
roughly 30 000 new tractors are sold
each year in germany
with sales of around 180 000 new
vehicles throughout europe
above all german and french companies
are noticeably
willing to invest
german manufacturers like this machine
factory in the emsland region
are particularly benefiting from the
shift to increasingly bigger and
more powerful agricultural machines
thanks to high quality and innovations
the company has transformed
from a small blacksmith shop into a
global supplier
agricultural technology made in germany
occupies a leading position in virtually
all sectors
and the manufacturers are constantly
coming up with new products
that attract international attention
such as this high-speed baler
which has actually won a prize for its
design
[Music]
this forage harvester is the best seller
it has an output of up to 1156
horsepower
and is used for harvesting corn on every
continent
the flagship model is now one of the
most powerful
agricultural machines in the world and
is even in action in china
brazil and chile so it's a real top
seller
agricultural machinery has been changing
at an increasingly faster pace for some
years
the number of farming operations is
constantly declining
while the remaining farms are
cultivating increasingly larger areas
but only powerful machines are able to
harvest these
in the tight time frames that are
available effectiveness
is the magic formula for ensuring
survival
many farmers are turning to contracting
companies
because the expensive technology is
proving to be cost effective for fewer
and fewer farms
they then carry out the sewing and field
work
there are around three thousand such
companies in germany
like fergadin in the minsterland region
american tractors with an output of
between 240 and 300 horsepower
are in action here these each cost a
minimum
of 180 000 euros and also
a latest generation corn chopper with
900 horsepower
this forage harvester which costs around
half a million euros
and is working for a biogas company is
called
bad bull
half a million euros is a lot of money
for a single harvesting machine
the machines have to be in operation for
a long time to pay for themselves
each failure costs money
the machine laughing our machines run
for several years
10 to 15 years and we're constantly
replacing them
of course the big machines are packed
full of technology and electronics
and of course all that has to be paid
for
unfortunately for the contractor without
these expensive investments
we wouldn't be around any longer if we
didn't invest in this technology
[Music]
productivity was the deciding factor for
this major purchase
the more horsepower a forage harvester
has the higher its throughput
meaning the amount that it can harvest
with its seven and a half meter wide
header
the chopper can manage around 300 metric
tons of corn in one hour
at full load it consumes around 200
liters of diesel per hour
or 150 liters per hour when driven more
gently
ultimately though the owner is most
concerned with the machine's performance
i've been driving forage harvesters for
about 35 years now
the horsepower is always important when
you're harvesting corn
and the number of rows or the width of
the header of course
and if the header is wider you need more
horsepower simply because of the mass
that has to be chopped
[Music]
here corn is used to produce biogas
so the cereal is not fed to livestock
but is instead used to generate energy
the fermentation process undergone by
the chopped plant
subsequently produces combustible gas
that is particularly suitable for
generating heat
for the contractor this order means
using six employees
the vehicle fleet alone is worth several
million euros
the corn is still standing
but within a short space of time only an
empty field
will be left behind
the powerful computers on board of the
choppers document the quality of the
harvest
down to the last detail and immediately
evaluate the recorded data
and of course the digital technology
also supplies
all of the other data needed for
invoicing and
for monitoring the vehicle fleet
one click and all of the information is
available
regardless of the farmer's current
location
nowadays as soon as a field has been
harvested the machine transmits the
relevant data such as the number of
hectares
tonnage and content everything that the
end customer the farmer is interested in
to a cloud where our customer the
contractor in this case can access it
he can print it out and process it and
that represents
[Music]
the construction of an increasing number
of biogas plants for generating energy
has triggered
a real corn boom according to the german
corn committee
there are currently 9500 of these plants
this has led to record sales of corn
choppers
the manufacturers of harvesting machines
have also experienced a boost in sales
the star on the corn fields is the big x
forage harvester powered by an man v12
engine
with a displacement of 24 liters and
1078 horsepower
the first machine to break through the
1000 horsepower threshold
business with biogas plants in
particular
has led to increases in the size of the
technology required for this
and not only the tractors have become
bigger
with volumes of up to 300 metric tons of
corn per hour
it's above all the choppers that have
grown in size
contractors that fail to invest
according to their customers needs
quickly find themselves losing out
the technique the technology is also
demanded by our customers
they say we're facing new challenges are
you going to go along with us
or are you going to hang back and so far
in recent years or over the past 40
years
as long as the company has been in
business we've always dared to move
forward
and we've come to the conclusion that
it's always been the right step for us
that we've always invested in new
technology
so if a corn chopper doesn't pack the
right punch
it's doubtful whether a farmer who has
become an energy entrepreneur
will remain a customer an extreme risk
for any contractor
at six hundred thousand hectares lower
saxony
is now germany's second biggest corn
growing state after bavaria
throughout the country around 2.6
million hectares are dedicated to corn
that amounts to 21 percent of germany's
arable land
in the 1950s it was only 50 000 hectares
now one in three corn plants is no
longer consumed by humans or livestock
but is instead transformed into energy
in biogas plants
the triumphant advance of corn on german
fields has speeded up
agricultural industrialization and
triggered a real scramble among vehicle
manufacturers
to come up with increasingly larger and
more powerful technology
family how do you grow when you look at
the sizes today
it's hard to imagine what things were
like in the past
we started harvesting corn back in the
70s at the time we had a tractor with 35
horsepower
and we used a two-row corn chopper that
was hitched to a tractor
the corn trailers that we had were
converted grain trainers
that we had to tip by hand
in bavaria here contractor martin
drescher
is thinking about buying a new forage
harvester
in this region corn is often used as a
fodder plant for feeding dairy cattle
that means different corn varieties
because the corn is then easier for the
livestock to digest
machine demonstrations have long since
become a sales tool for the
manufacturers
and where better to do that than on the
field
the jaguar 950 with around 600
horsepower
is being presented it's one of the top
selling choppers in the world
but why is this harvester called jaguar
might the feline predator's name have
something to do with the engine
no there's no jaguar engine in it the
machine has a mercedes engine
for anything over 700 horsepower we fit
man engines
but up to 625 horsepower we use mercedes
engines
the name jaguar is used because it's
become established at class
and the choppers have been called jaguar
for decades
knows that the chopper is top quality
but first of all
he sets off for an extensive test drive
on the field
this high-tech machine also costs around
half a million euros
the demonstrator vehicle has everything
on board that a contractor could
possibly want
including autopilot and gps technology
the driver sits in a kind of command
center the multifunction handle
is his best friend the 13 metric ton
chopper's gigantic fuel tank
can hold over 1 000 liters of diesel
a 300 liter auxiliary tank is also
available if needed
more than enough for hours of work
naturally
the jaguar forager also complies with
the latest emission standards
because they use truck engines adblue
has also long since found its way into
choppers
but which criteria does a company use as
the basis for buying technology
like buying a car there's several brands
whether you're talking about audi
mercedes or bmw
we have class and there's other
manufacturers too we've been working
together with class for a long time and
we're very satisfied
also because of the workshop the whole
service including replacement parts
supply
of course operating reliability is also
important particularly for our customers
that means it's also important that the
machines constantly function well and
the whole concept fits
the demonstration vehicle is slowly put
through its paces
at the same time it has to be made sure
that chopping itself is running properly
today however no purchase decision is
made by the contractor
something that is by no means unusual
for an investment of this magnitude
[Music]
back to foiphoman where the fields have
to be prepared for sowing rapeseed
immediately after harvesting
the 600 horsepower case quad track one
of only five in germany
is once again in operation it's hauling
a gigantic cultivator which is used
to loosen the soil
this gives us various options for
cultivating the soil firstly down to a
depth of around 10 centimeters
and then deep of course in the range
down to 30 centimeters
this is done to properly loosen the soil
and get it ready for sowing
so that we can sow rapeseed which is
what we're doing right now
with a dead weight of 25 metric tons
the extreme tractor pulls the 8 meter
wide deep cultivator behind it
as if it were dragging a toy tractor
driver
frank zieffeld is clearly enjoying his
work
off the field the tractor vehicle can do
almost 40 kilometers per hour
but what's important is what the tracks
can do on the field
the crawler track units enable us to use
very big implements without harming the
soil
and also to achieve a productivity of
around three to seven hectares per hour
even bigger machines are being used more
than anything else
to increase yields in agriculture but
they also pose risks
because the technology is often unwieldy
due to its sheer
size starting with the tractors
if the tractors have a maximum speed of
40 kilometers per hour
they can even be driven by 16 year olds
with a tractor permit
no matter how heavy or how large the
attachment implements or the tractor
itself are
the result is an unusually high number
of young tractor drivers involved in
accidents
the cause of this is their lack of
experience because not even a practical
driving permit test is officially
required
to drive the tractors but since
harvesting often falls in the vacation
period
many farms are forced to rely on such
inexperienced drivers
it's a really difficult business of
course we're totally dependent on the
weather
and to find the right people in the
right place is very difficult they're
often on the telephone day and night
and you have to try to get every able
body that you can
become a potential accident risk
is lurking in the dark tractors not only
travel at relatively high speeds
but also usually in convoys
and they need a lot of room many car
drivers
underestimate these hazards particularly
when overtaking
the large machines pose an additional
risk due to their sharp edged and
pointed headers
this is why the law states that they
have to be either folded up
or transported on trailers when driving
on the road
this crash test shows how quickly a
combine harvester can become a deadly
obstacle
and how powerless other road users are
against these working machines
a motorcycle rider impacts laterally
against the tire at a speed of 60
kilometers per hour
his chance of surviving is slim
in the second crash test a head-on
collision with the mowing unit is
simulated
this collision with a motorcycle rider
would certainly prove fatal
even when the header has been removed
frontal collisions with car drivers are
always a deadly hazard
harvesting machines are not designed for
use on roads
let's return to the size of modern
harvesting technology
and the question of what else is being
attempted to achieve
even greater efficiency
as the tractors are constantly having to
pull heavier loads
the trailers have also grown in size
they have long since reached dimensions
that are in no way comparable with
earlier models
however the legally specified weight
classes
still have to be adhered to which is why
even trucks are now being used
but because there are limits to the
tonnage lightweight parts are
particularly important
however the harvest is also being
transported over
increasingly long distances trucks are
therefore being used
ever more frequently in harvest
logistics
often contractors already have trucks
anyway and that's why they're
increasingly being used for transport
with half pipes
not only for delivering slurry but also
for transporting signage etc
and we're also noticing a slight trend
in germany but there are also other
countries in europe
where driving a truck on the field is
also significantly more established in
farming
[Music]
extra wide machines are jurgen schmatz's
speciality
the 51 year old truck driver comes from
berlin and is an
expert in transporting agricultural
machinery
this time he's loading at the
manufacturer in spele
lower saxony everyone in the plant knows
jurgen schwazza
he's been transporting the machines from
the emsland region to dealers across
europe
for the past 15 years this time
he has to take a round baler and a
silage trailer to a customer in austria
for jurgen a particular passion for
agriculture
is perfectly normal just like absolute
perfection
in load securing he carefully secures
each part with straps
chains blocks or wedges because the
weight of the cargo doesn't change the
fact that the machines could suddenly
start to move during braking
everything has to be done precisely so
that the expensive freight
reaches its destination unscathed
[Music]
there's no comparison to driving a
refrigerated or curtain semi-trailer
because you have different dimensions
and a different cargo every day
you have to load differently every day
and you have to do a lot of work in your
head in this area
it's not just a case of opening the
curtain or refrigerated semi-trailer
door
pallets in pallets out close the door
and off you go that's not possible here
so this is a very specialized area where
we need and i have to save professionals
as
drivers for jurgen schwazza
large machines mean big challenges and
above all
a lot of kilometers he covers around 120
000 of them a year as a customer group
the farming community
is still something very special for him
according to jurgen
these are very relaxed people who are
genuinely pleased to see the truck and
its load
a hectic pace is therefore a very poor
companion when transporting the
expensive technology
the reason being that the load is extra
wide and particular care on the road is
therefore absolutely crucial
and of course the cargo can also work
itself
loose over hundreds of kilometers
despite being carefully secured
therefore the driver also uses his
regular stops for inspections
[Music]
yeah to make sure that the straps are
taut and that the load is still fixed in
place
and is not now lying loose in the cargo
bed because the straps have stretched
and come loose
and you also have a responsibility
towards the customer and other road
users
because if this machine starts to slip
and falls down
while jurgen schwarzer's truck is not a
heavy-haul vehicle
and is only conspicuous on the road due
to its excess width
the freight nevertheless compels the
driver to pay particular attention
things can happen all too quickly
especially in extreme weather conditions
[Music]
it has started to snow time to find a
rest stop
many truckers carry on regardless
[Music]
although his permitted driving time
isn't up yet schwatzer decides to take a
break
as a precaution he makes his decision
based on the size and value of the
machines
[Music]
out here i can decide everything on my
own i have to decide for myself
only i can say whether i can go on or
not because my schedule or back in the
office can't say
you have to drive if the road is iced
over that doesn't work
i'm responsible for the freight for the
other road users for my life
for the vehicle basically for everything
nobody can tell me and nobody can order
me to continue driving when i myself can
say that it's irresponsible
so then i just park the vehicle and wait
until the roads have been cleared
or the road conditions enable me to
continue the journey safely
by the funk ports
are also very important for delivering
the gigantic harvesting machines
the blg logistics port in bremerhoffen
actually has a separate department that
is specialized in this
everything that the manufacturers want
to present and sell in large volumes on
the european market
arrives at the high and heavy terminal
and that includes everything needed to
make harvesting faster
and more effective starting with normal
and gigantic
agricultural tractors with crawler
tracks of course
but also ultra modern crop sprayers that
look like gigantic ants and are leaving
the ship for the mainland
the port is a hub from here the machines
are transported to the dealers by truck
and against the enormous carrier ships
even the oversized harvesting technology
appears comparatively small and delicate
the employees who work in two shifts
undergo special training to enable them
to drive the machines
off the vessel
[Music]
we have a special team of 160 people who
are only trained for high and heavy
loads
we send our instructor to the respective
manufacturers who then trains our staff
here internally
used heavy machinery also needs to be
sold
just like on the car market there are
huge stocks of used agricultural
machines
they go under the hammer at auctions
these machines are usually returned
vehicles from leasing and rental
agreements
they include tractors for which even
experienced dealers have been
unable to find a buyer or vehicles that
are being sold
because of financial emergencies even
decommissioned snow cats are on offer
[Music]
jurgen schwatzer is heading off to one
of these auctions today
the treasure that he has on board is an
old massey ferguson
with its output of 272 horsepower
the tractor was a sensation around 20
years ago
schwatza doesn't think much of the old
tractor its condition and high number of
operating hours
are critical
i don't know whether a farmer will go
for this the seat's broken
twelve thousand hours no farmer's gonna
buy this because he knows very well
two to three thousand hours the thing's
completely over the hill and then i
might have to pay 25
000 for it no way that would be like
throwing your money out of the window so
no way i wouldn't do it but
buying a used large tractor in an age of
leasing contracts
and tough competition between financial
service providers and
manufacturers banks only makes sense if
no costly repairs crop
up afterwards so auctions like this
always involve an element of risk
but when prices are low the used
vehicle's high horsepower
is a particularly interesting aspect the
customers come from all over the world
and purchase according to the rule of
bought as seen
as the landfill the farmers are
certainly looking for the big machines
the new ones are so expensive that a lot
of farmers just can't afford them
but the used ones are much more within
the farmers reach of course
they dream about them they want them and
the crux of the matter is that we offer
them
[Music]
jurgen schwazza deals with large
harvesting machines nearly every day
he too has a farming background and
therefore loves transporting the giant
harvesters on his truck
[Music]
sitting up there on your own and looking
out over that long hood and actually
driving a massive vehicle that weighs 10
metric tons
is really enjoyable and that's how it
feels when you're sitting in a thing
like this and thinking
who else drives a tractor like this
apart from a farmer or someone like that
state-of-the-art agricultural technology
is helping to feed the world's growing
population
another reason why the machines are
becoming increasingly larger
and above all more intelligent the fact
that they can drive and harvest
fully automatically at the same time is
fascinating this specialist company
also manufactures gigantic harvesters
packed full of high-tech equipment
the company from dama in lower saxony is
the undisputed global leader in potato
harvesting technology
because demand for potatoes is growing
around the globe
interest in self-propelled harvesters is
on the increase
the ventor model is regarded as a
revolution in harvesting technology
it has twice as many separators for
sieving and conveying potatoes on board
as its predecessors it's driven by a 530
horsepower truck engine
and is 15 meters long
when empty the 000 euro harvester weighs
30 metric tons the four row field
leviathan
which resembles a transformer can hold
15 metric tons of potatoes
that makes it one of the biggest potato
harvesters in the world
but performance isn't all that matters
the harvester separators carefully sort
out stones and residues from the
sensitive potato tubers
so that the technology doesn't take up
too much space on the road
its separators can be folded in and out
so on the field this vehicle is twice as
wide as on the road
we've pretty much reached the end in
terms of dimensions because we're coming
to the limits of what's possible on the
road particularly in western europe
we're stuck with three metres wide and
four meters high these machines simply
mustn't and can't become any bigger
the rexor is another giant harvester
this machine was developed for
harvesting beets chicory
and celery ac it is what is called
a multi and combination harvester that
is actually suitable for harvesting
various crops
special cutting technology ensures that
the whole beet
is gently removed from the ground
without its foliage
the rexer can harvest six rows
simultaneously
and has a capacity of 30 metric tons in
its bunker
above all its enormous productivity is
so far
unsurpassed it's 25
higher than the predecessor model the
driver is relieved of
all manual tasks incredible but thanks
to its modern technology
the machine can complete all of the
harvesting work
virtually on its own
[Music]
an articulated joint ensures that the
gigantic harvesting machine remains
agile
despite its empty weight of 34 metric
tons
and its length of 15.6 meters
its beating heart is a 653 horsepower
truck engine
for a global product like the rexor this
is part of the sales
[Music]
as the strategy element of our machine
the engine is a very important component
we sell the machines on the global
market in 120 different countries
and of course not only in areas where
there are major cities and metropolises
but also in rural areas
so it's extremely important that we have
the capability to be able to service
this 650 horsepower engine
and that's pretty much guaranteed
worldwide with mercedes with mtu
because they're part of the truck
industry and have the engines
replacement parts
and service capabilities all over the
world
another manufacturer from bavaria also
builds
multi-row machines for harvesting sugar
beet
but the tiger 6s model has a bit more
horsepower
this enables the powerful beet harvester
to cope with
any field a volvo engine with a
displacement of 16 liters
offers up to 796 horsepower
its maximum torque 3650 newton meters
an innovative chassis has been developed
specifically for the flagship
this reduces the machine's roll by about
65 percent
with increased daily outputs and reduced
operating costs
the company is hoping to establish the
tiger on beat fields around the globe
so that the driver also feels right at
home work was additionally done on the
cabin equipment
while there's still some way to go
before the beet harvester resembles a
spaceship
the spacey computerized workplace shows
how far
digitalization has progressed each phase
of harvesting
is seamlessly documented for the client
for quality control networked cameras on
the cabin roof
supply images of the beet crop before
and after harvesting remote diagnosis
enables service technicians to access
the machine control system
and help the driver in the event of
problems
we're entering a new era in our sector
with this machine
because it's completely networked this
machine has
integrated telematics it has a sim card
that's connected to our online portal
this acts as the basis for networking
the machine and the online portal
where
and where our service department can
help our drivers and customers in the
future
but this technology also comes at a
price
around 600 000 euros an amount
that many customers can only invest if
the tiger is in operation
virtually around the clock no problem
because this machine even turns night
into day with its special power
led lighting
the mood among the manufacturers is good
this is particularly due to increasing
interest
in high quality foodstuffs that are
needed to feed
even more people
worldwide grain production is already
unable to keep pace with consumption
highly effective harvesting technology
is helping farmers
to increase their productivity